# Software project success factors and limitations of their universality

The thesis is written in Finnish, but the English abstract has been copy-pasted below:

The research conducted in this thesis focuses on the success factors of software projects and the universality limitations of those success factors. The success factor research is viewed as valuable, as a lot of resources are wasted on unsuccessful projects. Therefore, even small improvements to the success percentage have measurable value. As the previous research had already summarised success factors in various lists, this thesis, in addition to success factors, focuses on universality limitations of success factors. The aim was to collect universality limitations of success factors and provide starting points for further research. The research roughly follows the systematic mapping study method. Usually, the method involves at least two researchers to minimize bias in the final article selection process. Therefore, as this research was conducted alone, the article selection process bias couldn’t be controlled as thoroughly. Additionally, the final articles chosen were mainly from journals associated with information systems science. More general viewpoints were included by including a couple of project management journals. As the results of this research, common success factor research starting points were identified. Furthermore, important non-scientific success factor literature was also identified from the literature. A list of success factors is also presented, to present examples of what success factors are. Finally, thoughts expressed in the reviewed literature about the universality limitations of success factors are presented. It can be concluded that the research on software project success factors is still evolving. For example, success factor as a term isn’t strictly defined, leading to variation in usage. Regardless of the evolving field and the detected variation, the reviewed research literature wasn’t contradictory. For example, the critique presented in older articles towards the definition of project success was explainable with the seemingly newer way of dividing project success to project management and project success.

Keywords: project management, software projects, success factors, universality limitations of success factors
